Installation of binary distribution of Java application comFramework codeGenerator
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The code generator belonging to project comFramework is a stand-alone Java
7 application. To install it you copy the contents of the archive to any
location. However, to avoid later problems with localizing files you
should only consider paths, which do not contain any blanks.

The complete installation path, including the name of the root folder in
the archive and the folder name codeGenerator is assigned to a new
environment variable COMFRAMEWORK_CODEGENERATOR_HOME. The script that
launches the Java application, will set the Java CLASSPATH based on this
root directory. Java will fail to locate the required jar files if the
environment variable is not properly set. Given, you'd copied the
archive's contents to the folder c:\ProgramFiles, then you could issue the
command

setx COMFRAMEWORK_CODEGENERATOR_HOME c:\ProgramFiles\comFramework\codeGenerator

from a Command Prompt window. (Now you need to open another shell window
to proceed; the current one will not take the new setting.) Please note,
that the proposed command will only install the new environment for the
current user. A machine wide setting by putting /m at the end of the
command line requires administrator rights.

The application launcher is a Windows script named codeGenerator.cmd. It
is located in the folder codeGenerator\dist. It's a very simple script and
Linux and Mac OS users won't have any problems to write the same script in
their respective shell script languages. The script becomes most useful if
the folder dist is added to the system search path (i.e. environment
variable PATH would be extended by
c:\ProgramFiles\comFramework\codeGenerator\dist in the example above).
Consider to type

pathman c:\ProgramFiles\comFramework\codeGenerator\dist

in a shell window.

Alternatively, the tiny script codeGenerator.cmd can be copied to all
locations where the code generator is about to be used.

If you decided to extend your PATH variable then you should test your
installation by opening a new shell window, cd'ing to an arbitrary working
directory and submitting the command:

codeGenerator.cmd --help

The application should be started and it should respond with its usage
text.