Installation of binary distribution of Java application excelExporter
---------------------------------------------------------------------

excelExporter is a stand-alone Java 7 application. An installed Java 7
(version 1.7) or higher is a prerequisite of running excelExporter. The
Java runtime environment suffices. You can get the Java JRE at
http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html (Mar
2016).

To install excelExporter you copy the contents of the archive to any
location. However, to avoid later problems with localizing files from
shell command line and scripts you should only consider paths, which do
not contain any blanks.

The complete installation path, including the name of the archive's root
folder excelExporter is assigned to a new environment variable
EXCELEXPORTER_HOME. The script that launches the Java application, will
set the Java CLASSPATH based on this root directory. Java will fail to
locate the required jar files if the environment variable is not properly
set. Given, you'd copied the archive's contents to the folder
c:\ProgramFiles, then you could issue the command

setx EXCELEXPORTER_HOME c:\ProgramFiles\excelExporter

from a Command Prompt window. (Now you need to open another shell window
to proceed; the current one will not take the new setting.) Please note, that
the proposed command will only install the new environment for the current
user. A machine wide setting by putting /m at the end of the command line
requires administrator rights.

The application launcher is a Windows script named excelExporter.cmd. It
is located in the folder excelExporter\dist. It's a very simple script and
Linux and Mac OS users won't have any problems to write the same script in
their respective shell script languages. The script becomes most useful if
the folder dist is added to the system search path (i.e. environment
variable PATH would be extended by c:\ProgramFiles\excelExporter\dist in
the example case above). Consider to type

pathman c:\ProgramFiles\excelExporter\dist

in a shell window.

Alternatively, the tiny script excelExporter.cmd can be copied to all
locations where the code generator is about to be used.

If you decided to extend your PATH variable then you should test your
installation by opening a new shell window, cd'ing to an arbitrary working
directory and submitting the command:

excelExporter.cmd --help

The application should be started and it should respond with its usage
text.