Installation of binary distribution of Java application comFramework codeGenerator
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The code generator belonging to project comFramework is a stand-alone Java
application. An installed Java 18 or higher is a prerequisite of running
the code generator. You can get the Java Open JDK at
https://jdk.java.net/18/ (May 2022). Download the archive (e.g.
https://download.java.net/java/GA/jdk18.0.1.1/65ae32619e2f40f3a9af3af1851d6e19/2/GPL/openjdk-18.0.1.1_windows-x64_bin.zip
for Windows x64 users).

Unzip the archive to a location of your choice and consider adding this
location to the operating system's search path. Either the Java
executable, java.exe, needs to be in the Windows search path or the Java
installation path -- where bin\java(.exe) is located in -- is assigned to
a new environment variable COMFRAMEWORK_JAVA_HOME. Given, you're Java
executable would be c:\ProgramFiles\jdk18.0.1.1\bin\java.exe, then you
could issue the command

    setx COMFRAMEWORK_JAVA_HOME c:\ProgramFiles\jdk18.0.1.1

from a Command Prompt window. (Now you need to open another shell window
to proceed; the current one will not take the new setting.) Please note,
that the proposed command will install the new environment variable only
for the current user. A machine wide setting by putting /m at the end of
the command line requires administrator rights.

Now, the comFramework archive is unzipped to any location. Installation
paths containing blanks should be avoided.

The installation path of comFramework's code generator (i.e. a path like
...\comFramework\codeGenerator, where folder dist is located in) is
assigned to a new environment variable COMFRAMEWORK_CODEGENERATOR_HOME.
The script that launches the Java application, will set the Java CLASSPATH
based on this root directory. Java will fail to locate the required jar
files if the environment variable is not properly set. Given, you'd copied
the archive's contents to the folder c:\ProgramFiles, then you could issue
the command

    setx COMFRAMEWORK_CODEGENERATOR_HOME c:\ProgramFiles\comFramework\codeGenerator

from a Command Prompt window.

The application launcher is a Windows script named codeGenerator.cmd. It
is located in the folder codeGenerator\dist. It's a very simple script and
Linux and Mac OS users won't have any problems to write the same script in
their respective shell script languages. The script becomes most useful if
the folder dist is added to the system search path (i.e. environment
variable PATH would be extended by
c:\ProgramFiles\comFramework\codeGenerator\dist in the example above).
Consider to type

    pathman c:\ProgramFiles\comFramework\codeGenerator\dist

in a shell window.

Alternatively, the tiny script codeGenerator.cmd can be copied to all
locations where the code generator is about to be used.

If you decided to extend your PATH variable then you should test your
installation by opening a new shell window, cd'ing to an arbitrary working
directory and submitting the command:

    codeGenerator.cmd --help

The application should be started and it should respond with its usage
text.