= image:doc/manual/theme/iconSafeRTOS-asColoredIcon.jpg[width="3%", pdfwidth="5%"] safe-RTOS (VLE) - A simple RTOS with safety support for MPC5643L
:Author:            Peter Vranken 
:Email:             mailto:Peter_Vranken@Yahoo.de
:toc:               left
:xrefstyle:         short
:numbered:
:icons:             font
:caution-caption:   :fire:
:important-caption: :exclamation:
:note-caption:      :paperclip:
:tip-caption:       :bulb:
:warning-caption:   :warning:

CAUTION: This readme file basically is a copy from the ancestor project,
which had been published for the MPC5643L. The text has not been revised
for the new context yet. It'll still contains many references to the
single core solution MPC5643L.

== About this application

This DEVKIT-MPC5748G sample application implements an easy to reuse RTOS
for the NXP MPC5748G and other microcontroller derivates with e200z4/7
core. The sample application started as a copy of MPC5643L sample
"RTOS-VLE". The RTOS implementation has been reworked (folder
`code\system\RTOS`) with respect to the demands of safety-critical
software. The concept of processes has been added with the intention to
run applications of different criticality levels in different processes
without fearing harmful interferences between them. Features:

* Preemptive, priority controlled scheduling
* Up to five processes (including kernel) with disjunct memory address
  spaces and hierarchic privileges
* Tasks belong to processes and share the process owned memories
* Globally shared memory for communication purpose
* Hardware memory protection to ensure integrity of process owned memories
* Secured priority ceiling protocol for communication purpose
* Inter-process function calls for communication purpose
* Deadline monitoring and activation loss counters for avoidance of
  blocking tasks
* Exception handling to catch failures like use of privileged, illegal or
  misaligned instructions or forbidden access to memory or I/O
* Diagnostic API to gather information about failing processes and the
  possibility to halt critical processes
* I/O driver model for safe implementation of a complete operating system

The RTOS itself is not a runnable piece of software. It requires some
application code. The demo application file from the elder
TRK-USB-MPC5643L sample RTOS-VLE has been migrated and can now be found as
sample application "default", see folder `code\application\default`.

Some more meaningful applications of the RTOS can be found in folder
`code\application\`.

To see how the samples work you need to open a terminal software on your
host machine. You can find a terminal as part of the CodeWarrior Eclipse
IDE; go to the menu, "Window/Show View/Other/Terminal/Terminal".

Open the serial port, which is offered by the DEVKIT-MPC5748G. (On
Windows, open the Computer Management and go to the Device Manager to find
out.) The Baud rate has been selected as 115200 Bd in files
`code\application\<applicationName>\mai_main.c`, 8 Bit, no parity, 1 start
and stop Bit. The terminal should print the messages, which are regularly
sent by the sample code running on the evaluation board.

== The RTOS

The proposed RTOS is little exciting with respect to its functionality.
The scheduler implements the functionality of what is called the "Basic
Conformance Class 1" (BCC1) of the OSEK/VDX-OS standard and of its BCC2 with
the exception of activation queuing.

The scheduler offers an API to create events that can activate tasks. An
event is either a regular timer event, triggered by the RTOS system clock,
or a software triggered event. The latter can be triggered either from
user code (if it has sufficient privileges) or from ISRs belonging to the
operating system.

The RTOS offers a pre-configured set of up to four processes. The
limitation to four is a hardware constraint and for sake of simplicity no
virtualization by software has been shaped. The operating system forms a
fifth process. The operating system startup code will register the needed
tasks. The registration assigns them to one of the processes and
associates them with one of the created events.

All scheduling is strictly priority controlled. The triggering of an event
makes all associated tasks ready to run. This is called task activation.
At any time, the scheduler decides by priority, which of the _ready_ tasks
becomes the one and only _running_ task. This may involve preemption of
tasks.

The operating system startup code can install needed interrupt service
routines (ISR). The API offered for this purpose is similar to the other
DEVKIT-MPC5748G samples in this repository.

For mutual exclusion of tasks, if shared data is involved, a lock API is
offered that implements the priority ceiling protocol (PCP). It is secured
so that supervisory tasks cannot be accidentally or purposely blocked by
application code.

The mechanisms already known from the other DEVKIT-MPC5748G samples to
suspend and resume all interrupts are still supported but they are no
longer offered to application code, only the operating system may use them
(mainly for I/O driver implementation).

The use of the RTOS is further supported by some diagnostic functions.
They offer stack usage information, information about caught exceptions
and averaged CPU load information. The diagnostics comes along with a new
API to halt the execution of a process. Permission to use this API is
granted only to what is considered the safety process or task.

Many more details can be found in the manual, which is available
https://github.com/PeterVranken/TRK-USB-MPC5643L/blob/safe-RTOS-swScheduler/LSM/safe-RTOS-VLE/doc/manual/readMe.adoc[online (for MPC5643L)^]
in GitHub or as
https://github.com/PeterVranken/TRK-USB-MPC5643L/blob/safe-RTOS-swScheduler/LSM/safe-RTOS-VLE/doc/manual/manual.pdf[printable (for MPC5643L)^]
document. The API is described in the online https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PeterVranken/TRK-USB-MPC5643L/safe-RTOS-swScheduler/LSM/safe-RTOS-VLE/doc/doxygen/html/globals_func.html[Doxygen help (for MPC5643L)^], too.

=== Differences to the ancestor RTOSs

The architecture of the RTOS is very simple and resembles its ancestors,
which were the simple RTOS without safety concept and safe-RTOS-VLE with
hardware scheduler (still provided only for MPC5643L). This simplicity
significantly supports the validation of the code in a safety-critical
software development environment.

For an explanation of the scheduling scheme, you may still refer to the
documentation of the simple RTOS, please look
https://github.com/PeterVranken/TRK-USB-MPC5643L/tree/safe-RTOS-swScheduler/LSM/RTOS-VLE#The-RTOS[here (for MPC5643L)^].

The differences between safe-RTOS and the simple RTOS are:

* The safety concept
* Any number of tasks can be associated with an event. The simple RTOS had
  used a one-by-one relation between events and tasks. (Having more than
  one task per event makes sense only in conjunction with the new process
  concept)
* The implementation of the safety mechanisms means a performance loss.
  The sample application "benchmark", which aims at simulating the typical
  timing of a true application shows an increased CPU load of 1.7%.
* The architecture of the RTOSs may be similar but the implementation
  isn't. The safety demands require a significant portion of assembler
  code for implementation
* The Book E instruction set is no longer supported

The major difference between the two branches of safe-RTOS is the
substitution of the hardware based scheduler by a pure software solution.
This has its pros and cons:

* The performance of the software solution is worse. The sample
  application "benchmark" shows an increased CPU load of about 0.3%. For
  the other sample application "default", which has an extremely high
  interrupt load, it's even 1.5%
* There's no longer a limitation for the maximum number of events. This
  was the main motivation for the change; a port for the MPC5775B/E
  dual-core suffered from the hardware limitation of eight events, which
  were even to be distributed onto both cores
* All tasks have a prioprity, which is by principle lower than any
  interrupt priority
* User mode tasks can't have a critical section with ISRs any more. (OS
  tasks can still have)
* In a safety aware development process, the effort for testing and code
  reviews will be higher for the software solution
* There are behavioral differences between hard- and software solution,
  which are visible at the API. It's mainly about having separate priority
  spaces for tasks and ISRs in the software solution, but this is a
  particularity, which won't have an impact on the choice to make

For small applications, where the hardware given maximum of eight events
is no issue, the hardware solution may still be the better choice. For now,
it is still available on the master branch of the repository.

== The safety concept

This sections aims at giving an overview on the safety concept. Technical
details can be found in the manual of the RTOS.

A typical nowadays embedded project consists of a lot of code coming from
various sources. There may be an Open Source Ethernet stack, an Open
Source Web server plus self-made Web services, there may be an Open Source
driver software for a high resolution LCD, a framework for GUIs plus a
self-designed GUI, there needs to be the self-made system control software,
possibly a file system for data logging on an SMD storage, the C
libraries are used, and so on. All in all many hundred thousand lines of
code.

If the system can reach a state, which is potentially harmful to people or
hardware, then it'll typically need some supervisory software, too, which
has the only aim of avoiding such a state. Most typical, the supervisory
software can be kept very lean. It may e.g. be sufficient to read a
temperature sensor, check the temperature against a boundary and to
control the coil of the main relays, which powers the system. If the
temperature exceeds a limit or if the temperature reading is somehow
implausible then the relay is switched off and the entire system
unpowered. That's all. A few hundred lines of code can already suffice
for such a task.

All the rest of the software is not safety relevant. A fault in this
majority of code may lead to wrong system behavior, customer
dissatisfaction, loss of money, frustration, etc. but will not endanger
the safety of the system or the people using it.

If we rate the safety goal higher than the rest then we have a significant
gain in terms of development effort if we can ensure that the few hundred
lines of supervisory code will surely work always well and even despite of
potential failures of the rest of the code. Without the constraint
"despite of" we had to ensure "working always well" for all the many
hundred thousand lines of code.

Using a safety-aware RTOS can be one means to ensure this. The supervisory
code is put into a process of higher privileges and the hundred thousands
of lines of other code are placed into a separate process with lower
privileges. (Only) RTOS and supervisory code need to be carefully
reviewed, tested, validated to guarantee the "working always well" of the
supervisory code. Using a "normal" RTOS, where a fault in any part of the
code can crash the entire software system, the effort for reviews, tests
and validation needed to be extended to all of the many hundred thousand
lines of code. The economic difference and the much higher risk of not
discovering a fault are evident.

These basic considerations result in a single top-level requirement for
our safe-RTOS:

* If the implementation of a task, which is meant the supervisory or
  safety task, is itself free of faults then the RTOS shall guarantee that
  this task is correctly and timely executed regardless of whatever
  imaginable failures are made by any other process.

This requirement serves at the same time as the definition of the term
"safe", when used in the context of this RTOS. safe-RTOS promises no more
than this requirement says. As a consequence, a software made with this
RTOS is not necessarily safe and even if it is then the system using that
software is still not necessarily safe. Here, we just deal with the tiny
contribution an operating system kernel can make to a safe system.

All other technical requirements are derived from this one.

=== Technical concept

The basic idea of safe-RTOS is to organize all user tasks in groups of
such, the processes. Each process has write-access to its own, disjunct
RAM areas. (And to one additional shared area, which all processes have
write access to.) Writing to any other address of the address space is a
privilege violation.

Reading RAM and ROM is known to be free of side-effects and can't do any
harm to another process -- it's therefore generally permitted.

Reading non-user MCU registers (CPU supervisor registers and I/O
registers) can have side-effects and is therefore generally forbidden. Any
attempt to do so is considered a privilege violation.

Any attempt to write to a non-user MCU register (CPU supervisor register
or I/O register) is considered a privilege violation.

API functions that control the behavior of other tasks or processes are
restricted to the use of certain processes. Any attempt of another process
to make use of such an API is a privilege violation. The most prominent
example is the API to halt the execution of a process.

Any privilege violation is punished by immediate abortion of the causing
task and in particular before the according instruction can have a
side-effect on not-owned RAM or CPU or I/O registers. The abortion is
counted with cause in the global process data.

The abortion of a task has no impact on future activations. The same task
will be activated again as soon as the event is triggered again, which the
task is associated with. If the task has a static error then it may easily
end up with an endless cycle of task activations and task abortions.

The kernel will never do more than immediately aborting a failing task.
It'll not take any decision like: "Enough is enough, we are going to stop
that." Instead, it offers the mechanisms to implement such decisions in a
particular supervisory task.

The implementation of recognizing privilege violations before they can
harm is founded on the memory management unit (MMU) in the CPU, the memory
protection unit of the CPU-external buses and the CPU's exception
mechanism. It's impossible for a user task to change the behavior of the
MPU as its registers are in the address space it itself protects. It is
impossible for user code to change the behavior of MMU or CPU exception
handling; these settings are held in CPU supervisor registers, which
cannot be accessed without an immediately punished privilege violation.

Note, the execution of code in ROM is generally not restricted. A task may
even call operating system code routines -- until the executed code would
have a side-effect on not-owned RAM or on supervisor or I/O registers
(which it'll normally have very soon). Then a privilege violation is
detected and the task is aborted.

=== Self-diagnosis of the kernel

The RTOS offers an all-embracing concept for recognizing failures of the
user tasks and for hindering these failures from doing any harm. By
principle, the kernel can't offer such a concept for its own
implementation, too. Nonetheless, there is a thin layer of self-diagnosis
and protection against kernel implementation faults. The exception
handlers inspect the exception throwing context to prove that this context
belongs to the user task code. According to our concept this will always
be the case -- except for implementation errors in the kernel itself (or in
an added I/O driver, see below) or, less likely but possible, because of a
sporadic hardware fault, e.g. caused by local chip overtemperature or
cosmic radiation. In which case the kernel simply stops working.

Halting the software execution can be considered not breaking the safety
concept of the system; in a safe system, there will always be an external
(i.e. CPU unrelated) device, which permanently checks the alive status of
the software running on the CPU and this device will ensure the transition
of the system into the safe state.

Note, in contrast to faults caught in the user tasks this mechanism can
not guarantee that the failure has not yet done some harm before being
recognized.

=== Kernel vs. Operating System

safe-RTOS implements an operating system kernel but not an operating
system (OS). Additional code has to be added to let it become an OS. The
majority of this code will be the configuration and setup of processes and
tasks and a set of I/O device drivers.

The implementation of such drivers needs to make use of privileged
instructions and needs to access the I/O address space, which both is not
allowed in user tasks. The safety concept can hence not be limited to the
RTOS. The considerations made for the RTOS and its implementation need to
be considered for the I/O driver implementation, too. The concept is that
the RTOS is not limited to the source code that implements it but it also
has an abstract layer: It comes along with a binding set of design rules
how to implement an I/O driver. These rules are called the "driver model".
Any programmer of an I/O driver, who disregards only a single rule will
break the entire safety concept and the RTOS implementation can't help it.

safe-RTOS's driver model specifies memory mapped drivers, safe callbacks
and system calls of three "conformance classes", basic, simple and full.
They offer a trade off between driver performance in terms of CPU load and
attainable behavior and ease of programming. The by far leanest and most
powerful "basic" implementation needs to be done in assembler, the other
two classes can be implemented in C.

Note, adding an I/O driver to the RTOS is not only a matter of complying
with the driver model. Any programming error can potentially break the
safety concept, too. Much of the I/O driver code is executed in the kernel
process and implementation faults can crash the entire software system
like it generally is for all code in a "normal" RTOS. The organization of
the development work needs to take care by planning and implementing
according quality assurance measures. (Organizational measures, which will
necessarily include the published source code of the RTOS itself.)

=== Architecture of application code

Provided all I/O drivers are implemented fully compliant with the driver
model and they have been successfully validated then we have a safe
operating system but still not a safe software. A further constraint is
that the application software makes correct use of the offered mechanisms.

The supervisory code shall be put into the process with highest
privileges. It can be that the outlined concept is implemented in a
recursive way and the supervisory code is in turn split into two
criticality levels, with a very lean watchdog functionality on top.
("Sub-ordinated main part of supervisory code still alive and
functioning?") In which case the watchdog would have highest privileges
followed by the main part of the supervisory code and both having higher
privileges as the supervised functional code.

The highest privileged safety code will run on a priority level, which cannot
be preempted by tasks belonging to processes of lower privileges and which
cannot be blocked by these tasks using the offered APIs for mutual
exclusion of tasks. (With other words, a task with low privileges cannot
shape a critical section with the task of highest privileges.)

The supervisory code will make use of the diagnostics APIs to see if the
functional code is executing well. It can in case halt the execution of
the failing process or otherwise ensure that the system doesn't leave the
safe operation state.

The RTOS mechanisms guarantee that faults in the user code cannot do any
harm -- but this relates only to the definition of "harm" in the RTOS
context: OS configuration, I/O configuration or state, memory of other
processes, timely execution of their tasks can't be touched. The same
mechanisms can not hinder the user task code from doing all kind of
things, which are not harmful in this sense but still harmful to the
system under control. Not allowing this is of course a top-level
requirement of the aimed software. It needs to be tackled mainly by the
architecture of the software. Here's a single example:

Commonly, the functional code in the software computes I/O commands, which
go to the I/O drivers and control the connected actuators -- which can mean
a lot of harm if giving wrong commands. By application design it can be
easily ensured that a functional task runs first, followed by a
supervisory task and finally the OS owned I/O driver task executes. In
such an architecture the supervisory code would be put in the position to
double-check the I/O control commands -- and override them if advisable --
before these commands are executed by the finally running I/O task.

This is just meant a simple example. The point is that the RTOS only
offers the mechanisms to design a safe software but it can not undertake
for software safety.

== Tools

=== Environment

==== Command line based build

The makefiles and related scripts require a few settings of the
environment in the host machine. In particular, the location of the GNU
compiler installation needs to be known and the PATH variable needs to
contain the paths to the required tools. 

For Windows users there is a shortcut to PowerShell in the root of this
project (not sample), which opens the shell with the prepared environment.
Furthermore, it creates an alias to the appropriate GNU make executable.
You can simply type `make` from any location to run MinGW32 GNU make.

The PowerShell process reads the script `setEnv.ps1`, located in the
project root, too, to configure the environment. This script requires
customization prior to its first use. Windows users open it in a text
editor and follow the given instructions that are marked by TODO tags.
Mainly, it's about specifying the installation directory of GCC.

Non-Windows users will read this script to see, which (few) environmental
settings are needed to successfully run the build and prepare an according
script for their native shell.

==== Eclipse for building, flashing and debugging

Flashing and debugging is always done using the NXP CodeWarrior Eclipse
IDE, which is available for free download. If you are going to run the
application build from Eclipse, too, then the same environmental settings
as described above for a shell based build need to be done for Eclipse. The
easiest way to do so is starting Eclipse from a shell, that has executed
the script `setEnv.ps1` prior to opening Eclipse.

For Windows users the script `CW-IDE.ps1` has been prepared. This script
requires customization prior to its first use. Windows users open it in a
text editor and follow the given instructions that are marked by TODO
tags. Mainly, it's about specifying the installation directory of
CodeWarrior.

Non-Windows users will read this script to see, which (few) environmental
and path settings are needed to successfully run the build under control
of Eclipse and prepare an according script for their native shell.

Once everything is prepared, the CodeWarrior Eclipse IDE will never be
started other than by clicking the script `CW-IDE.ps1` or its equivalent
on non-Windows hosts.

See https://github.com/PeterVranken/TRK-USB-MPC5643L[project overview^] and
https://github.com/PeterVranken/TRK-USB-MPC5643L/wiki/Tools-and-Installation[GitHub
Wiki^] for more details about downloading and installing the required
tools.

=== Compiler and makefile

Compilation and linkage are makefile controlled. The compiler is GCC
(MinGW-powerpc-eabivle-4.9.4). The makefile is made generic and can be
reused for other projects, not only for a tiny "Hello World" with a few
source files. It supports a number of options (targets); get an overview
by typing:
 
    cd <projectRoot>/samples/safe-RTOS
    mingw32-make help

The main makefile `GNUmakefile` has been configured for the build of
sample "safe-RTOS" but the kernel can't be linked into a runnable
binary without an application. You need to specify the source code path of
a safe-RTOS application on the command line of make. Set variable APP to
do so. Possible applications can be found as the children of folder
`<projectRoot>/samples/safe-RTOS/code/application`. Type
("code/application/default/" is just an example):

    mingw32-make -s build APP=code/application/default/
    mingw32-make -s build APP=code/application/default/ CONFIG=PRODUCTION
    mingw32-make -s build APP=code/application/default/
    mingw32-make -s build APP=code/application/default/ CONFIG=PRODUCTION

to produce the flashable files
`bin\ppc\default\DEBUG\DEVKIT-MPC5748G-safe-RTOS.elf`,
`bin\ppc\default\PRODUCTION\DEVKIT-MPC5748G-safe-RTOS.elf`,
`bin\ppc\default\DEBUG\DEVKIT-MPC5748G-safe-RTOS.elf`,
and
`bin\ppc\default\PRODUCTION\DEVKIT-MPC5748G-safe-RTOS.elf`.

To get more information, type:

    mingw32-make help

WARNING: The makefile requires the MinGW port of the make processor. The
Cygwin port will fail with obscure, misleading error messages. It's safe
to use the `make.exe` from the compiler installation archive but
explicitly typing `mingw32-make` will avoid any problem.

The makefile is designed to run on different host systems but has been
tested with Windows 7 and Windows 10 only.

Note, the Eclipse project configuration in the root folder of this sample
only supports the build of a sub-set of the possible configurations.
Safe-RTOS can be compiled with a few sample applications only, each of
them in DEBUG and PRODUCTION compilation. To build more samples with
Eclipse you would have to duplicate the existing build configurations and
adapt the make command lines in the build settings according to the
explanations and examples above.

=== Flashing and debugging

The code of this DEVKIT-MPC5748G sample can be flashed and debugged with
the CodeWarrior IDE.

To flash the `*.elf` file of a safe-RTOS application like `default`, open the
CodeWarrior IDE, go to the menu, click "Window/Show
View/Other/Debug/Debugger Shell". In the debugger shell window, type for
example:

    cd <rootFolderOfSample>/makefile/debugger
    set APP default
    source flashDEBUG.tcl
    
or

    set APP default
    source flashPRODUCTION.tcl

(Setting TCL variable APP doesn't need to be repeated prior to every
repeated flashing.)

The debugger is started by a click on the black triangle next to the blue
icon "bug", then click "Debug Configurations.../CodeWarrior/safe-RTOS
(default, DEBUG)". Confirm and start the debugger with a last click on 
button "Debug".

(Or select the according debug configuration for another safe-RTOS
application.)

You can find more details on using the CodeWarrior IDE at
https://github.com/PeterVranken/TRK-USB-MPC5643L/wiki/Tools-and-Installation[TRK-USB-MPC5643L/wiki/Tools-and-Installation^].

== Code architecture

This DEVKIT-MPC5748G sample is compiled for the VLE instruction set. The
build settings are identical to "startup". Please refer to
https://github.com/PeterVranken/DEVKIT-MPC5748G/blob/samples/startup/readMe.adoc[samples/startup/readMe.adoc^]
for details.

=== Book E versus VLE

Only VLE code is supported.

== Known issues

. Debugger: If the view shows the INTC0 register set then the debugger
harmfully affects program execution and the RTOS fails: The write to
INTC_EOIR_PRC0, which normally restores the current priority level
INTC_CPR_PRC0, now fails to do so. The complete interrupt handling fails
from now on. Mostly the effect is that the OS tick interrupt, which has a
high priority, leaves this high priority level set in the INTC_CPR_PRC0,
so that effectively no interrupts (including itself) are handled any more.
Only the code of the idle task is executed any longer.
+
Workaround: Don't open the view of the INTC0 in the debugger when
debugging a safe-RTOS application. Then the INTC and the code work fine.

. Debugger: A similar effect has been observed with the instructions to
alter the External Interrupt enable bit, MSR[EE]. Do not single-step in
the debugger over wrtee(i) instructions. The instruction may fail to
change the bit. If the code approaches such an instruction you should use
the right-click operation "Run to line", targeting the instruction behind
the wrtee(i). This works fine.

. Debugger: It is not possible to hinder the P&E debugger from halting at
an se_illegal instruction. (See https://community.nxp.com/thread/497533)
This makes it impossible to debug the fault catching capabilities of the
RTOS. All severe code errors, which lead to the execution of an arbitrary
address, will sooner or later encounter a zero word in the instruction
stream and the debugger will break -- before the RTOS can catch the error.
It is possible to continue the code execution from the debugger and to
see, what the RTOS will do but this is an interactive process and
systematic testing of error catching code is not possible this way. We can
only do it without connected debugger.